Blog: FLAME GPU 2 H100/A100/V100 Benchmarking (#703)
RSE-Sheffield/RSE-Sheffield.github.io: _posts/2023-07-18-benchmarking-flamegpu2-on-h100-a100-and-v100-gpus.md

## H100 GPUs now available at the University of Sheffield

Members of the University of Sheffield have access to a range of GPU resources for carrying out their research, available in local (Tier 3) and affiliated regional (Tier 2) HPC systems.

**As of the 7th of August 2023, [12 new H100 PCIe GPUs][h100-live-email] (6 nodes, 2 GPUs per node) have been added to the [Stanage Tier 3 HPC facility][stanage] and are available for all users**.

At the time of writing, the following GPUs are available for members of the university, free at the point of use:

+ [Stanage][stanage-gpus] (Tier 3, The University of Sheffield):
  + 60 public NVIDIA A100 SXM4 80GB GPUs
  + 12 public NVIDIA H100 PCIe 80GB GPUs
+ [Bessemer][bessemer] (Tier 3, The University of Sheffield):
  + [4 public][bessemer-gpus] NVIDIA Tesla V100 SXM2 32GB GPUs
  + [32 private (Computer Science)][bessemer-dcs-gpus] NVIDIA Tesla V100 SXM2 32GB GPUS
+ [JADE 2][jade2] (Tier 2 - Machine Learning and Molecular Dynamics):
  + 504 NVIDIA Tesla V100 MAXQ 32GB GPUs
+ [N8 CIR Bede][bede] (Tier 2 - PPC64LE CPUs & Multi-node jobs):
  + 136 NVIDIA Tesla V100 SXM2 32GB GPUs with host-device NVLink
  + 16 NVIDIA Tesla T4 16GB PCIe GPUs

> The newly available H100 GPUs in Stanage are the [300W PCIe variant][nvidia-h100-architecture], with 2 GPUs per node which are not connected to each other by NVLink connections.

Reviewer: Omit "with 2 GPUs per node which are not connected to each other by NVLink connection" and expand in following para as that covers NVLink specifically?  Also, worth mentioning SXM vs PCIe?

Author: Ta. 
I've now moved that to the following paragraph and expanded it a bit.

I considered adding raw numbers, but it gets complicated (64GB/s (ish) aggregate bi-directional PCI for 16 lanes of gen4, vs 600GB/s total aggregate per A100 (12 lanes at 25GB/s each way), but only 200GBs between each pair of devices, so actually its 32GB/s and 100GB/s one-way that is interesting. Plus the H100 are PCIE Gen 5, but they are connected to a Gen 4 host... 

I've also added a sentence clarifying the benchamrks are single-gpu. (but I didn't go into the fact its possibel to do ensembles of simulations which does use mutliple gpus in flamegpu, nor the fact we have an open PR about distribtued multi-node ensembles...)

**As of the 7th of August 2023, [12 new H100 PCIe GPUs][h100-live-email] (6 nodes, 2 GPUs per node) have been added to the [Stanage Tier 3 HPC facility][stanage] and are available for all users**.

At the time of writing, the following GPUs are available for members of the university, free at the point of use:

+ [Stanage][stanage-gpus] (Tier 3, The University of Sheffield):
  + 60 public NVIDIA A100 SXM4 80GB GPUs
  + 12 public NVIDIA H100 PCIe 80GB GPUs
+ [Bessemer][bessemer] (Tier 3, The University of Sheffield):
  + [4 public][bessemer-gpus] NVIDIA Tesla V100 SXM2 32GB GPUs
  + [32 private (Computer Science)][bessemer-dcs-gpus] NVIDIA Tesla V100 SXM2 32GB GPUS
+ [JADE 2][jade2] (Tier 2 - Machine Learning and Molecular Dynamics):
  + 504 NVIDIA Tesla V100 MAXQ 32GB GPUs
+ [N8 CIR Bede][bede] (Tier 2 - PPC64LE CPUs & Multi-node jobs):
  + 136 NVIDIA Tesla V100 SXM2 32GB GPUs with host-device NVLink
  + 16 NVIDIA Tesla T4 16GB PCIe GPUs

The newly available H100 GPUs in Stanage are the [300W PCIe variant][nvidia-h100-architecture], this means that for some workloads the university's 500W A100 SXM4 GPUs may offer higher performance (with higher power consumption).

> Multi-GPU workloads which perform a large volume of GPU to GPU communication may also be better suited to the A100 nodes than the H100 nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, multi-GPU workloads which perform a large volume of GPU to GPU communication may be better suited to the A100 nodes than the H100 nodes.
```

Also move this up to follow previous sentence.

Carl Kennedy and Nicholas Musembi of the Research and Innovation Team in IT Services have [benchmarked these new GPUs using popular machine learning frameworks][h100-rcg-ml-benchmark], however not all HPC workloads exhibit the same performance characteristics as machine learning.

## FLAME GPU 2

<!-- Within the RSE group, a number of staff have been involved in developing [FLAME GPU 2][flamegpu-website]... -->

[![FLAME GPU 2 Logo](/assets/images/2023-07-18-benchmarking-flamegpu2-on-h100-a100-and-v100-gpus/flamegpu2-icon-256.png){: .img-fluid max-width="256px "}][flamegpu-website]{: .float-right .ml-2}

[FLAME GPU 2][flamegpu2-repo] is an open-source GPU accelerated simulator for domain independent complex systems simulations using an agent-based modelling approach.
Models are implemented using CUDA C++ or Python 3, with modellers describing the behaviours of individuals within the simulation and how they interact with one another through message lists.
From these relatively simple agent behaviours and interactions, complex behaviours can emerge and be observed.

> The underlying use of GPUs allows for much larger scale Agent Based Simulations than traditional CPU-based frameworks with high levels of performance, while abstracting the complexities of GPU programming away from the modeller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The underlying use of GPUs allows for much larger scale Agent Based Simulations than traditional CPU-based frameworks with high levels of performance, while abstracting the complexities of GPU programming away from the modeller. A recent [NVIDIA blog](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/fast-large-scale-agent-based-simulations-on-nvidia-gpus-with-flame-gpu/) post showed how, in certain scenarios, FLAME GPU is able to operate thousands of times faster than CPU alternatives.
```
